---
title: "Choosing a Location"
section: "Land and Legacy"
image_path: "macalester-site-map-TEMP.jpg"
order: 4
year: 1823
---

 The decision of where to build a new college was a difficult one in the early days of Macalester, and the outcome would shape the character of the school for the rest of its history. The trustees of the college chose to sell the dilapidated Winslow House after Charles Macalester’s death and use the funds to purchase a new plot of land. Many potential places were considered, including plots of land north of University Avenue, in St. Anthony Park and in Minneapolis, somewhere between Fort Snelling and Lake Bde Maka Ska. However, after much back and forth, the trustees chose to purchase 160 acres of land from the Holyoke estate in late January 1882. The land was located on the southwest corner of Snelling and Summit Avenues, right in between the urban centers of Minneapolis and St. Paul.

Although Macalester’s location would eventually become one of its strongest selling points, initial impressions of the spot were less than ideal. Thomas McCurdy, who would eventually become the college’s president, had a distinctly negative impression of the location when he first visited in 1883, calling it “beggarly” and noting its lack of funding, amenities. The site was two miles away from the nearest streetcar stop, and it would be several years before  the electric trolley would reach campus, thanks in part to an investment of $6500 from the college and the donation of a chunk of its campus to form what would one day become Grand Avenue. 

Despite the initial uncertainty around the college’s location, the first college catalog, released in 1885, does not hesitate to claim that presidents of colleges on the East Coast “pronounce it the best they have any knowledge of in this country.” The college administration was clearly eager to establish Macalester as a peer institution to older, more established colleges on the East Coast, like Neill’s idealized alma mater, Amherst. In addition to the campus’s natural beauty, the catalog somewhat paradoxically praises both its isolation from the sinful temptations of city life and its proximity to the urban centers of both Minneapolis and St. Paul: “The location is beautiful and commanding /[/. . ./]/ Trains pass every hour to one or other of the cities. There are no saloons or other temptations to immoral habits present. All of the advantages of the city are had, without any of the disadvantages.” Despite the urbanization and development that has taken place since 1885, Macalester’s current website and marketing materials continue to highlight the college’s location between the Twin Cities (although without mention of saloons).